\section{Comparison to Previous Work}
As mentioned previously in Section 1.3, several authors have investigated transfers between Earth
or cislunar space and Mars. These studies us a variety of methodologies to accomplish these
transfers, leveraging direct impulsive burns, low-thrust, and/or invariant manifolds. Some of their
relevant findings are provided here for comparison to the results of this investigation.

...

Kakoi et al. provided the inspiration for the transfer methodology between the Earth-Moon and
Sun-Earth CR3BP models\cite{Kakoi:2014,Kakoi:2015}. Their investigation focused on comparing
different transfer scenarios departing from Earth-Moon $L_{1}$ and $L_{2}$ halo orbits. While the
strategies used are slightly different, Kakoi et al. construct transfers that utilize Sun-Earth
unstable invariant manifolds and compare them to direct transfers from Earth-Moon halo orbits. As
some sample values for an $L_{2}$ halo departure, their investigation found that a transfer along a
Sun-Earth halo invariant manifold required a total maneuver cost of $1.604$ km/s and a total TOF of
$1762$ days ($4.82$ years). Note that in their investigation, a maneuver is applied along the
departure manifold arc to speed up the transfer and the final destination is Mars' location,
cutting off the long arrival time of the stable manifold arc. On the other hand, directly using the
unstable manifold from the Earth-Moon halo orbit resulted in a transfer with a $\Delta v$ of
$0.921$ km/s and a TOF of $1784$ days ($4.88$ years)\cite{Kakoi:2015}. This direct transfer again
uses a maneuver along the departure manifold arc, as well as an inclination change maneuver during
an Earth-flyby. Other direct transfers provided in the study have lower and higher times-of-flight
and maneuver costs, showing that there a wide variety of available options. This also reflects the
findings of the current investigation, where some orbits have "direct" transfers that are more
desirable than the staging orbit transfers but other orbits do not. While these values cannot be
directly compared to those from this investigation, the general conclusion of Kakoi et al. is that
the utilization of direct Earth-Moon manifolds allows for more flexible departure dates and
transfer options, while the comparison of "direct" transfers to those with Sun-Earth staging orbits
is orbit-dependent.
